## Scientific background

### Heterogeneous networks
Networks are ubiquitous in biomedical science.
Protein-protein interaction networks, drug-target pairs, disease-symptom pairs, and more such relationship data have been produced made publicly available to biomedical researchers.
Each such relationship represents a single-type network-- a homogeneous network-- in which all relationships share a single type.
The combination and integration of many such networks results in a heterogeneous network, one in which network entities (nodes) can have connections of many different types.
For example, consider the protein "ATP-binding cassette, sub-family A, member 4" (ABCA4).
The database BioGRID contains the information that ABCA4 interacts with  serine/arginine repetitive matrix 1 (SRRM1), and details that this interaction was determined using the experimental category "Affinity Capture-Western," [@url:https://thebiogrid.org/106542/summary/homo-sapiens/abca4.html]
OMIM has the information that mutations of ABCA4 are associated with the phenotype "Retinal dystrophy, early-onset severe," [@url:https://www.omim.org/entry/601691].
Combining these two pieces of information gives a heterogeneous network, in which ABCA4 has two relationships, of types "Gene-Interacts-Gene" and "Gene-associates-Disease."
Moreover, using high-quality databses such as BioGRID, we can capture entity and relationship metadata, such as the information about how a protein-protein interaction was determined, or even DOIs for the papers in which relationships were first published.

### Hetionet v1.0
In 2017, Himmelstein et al. published a database alongside their paper on systematic predictions of drug repurposing candidates [@doi:10.7554/eLife.26726].
The database, a large heterogeneous network of biomedical data, is called Hetionet v1.0, and it contains 2,250,197 relationships between 47,031 entities in the network.
These can be categorized into 24 types of relationships and 11 types of entities.
Himmelstein et al. focused on one specific task, the systematic prediction of new edges in the network, specifically, the prediction of new "Compound-treats-Disease" relationships.

