## Summer aims

This summer I continued work on the Greene Lab project called 'Hetmech' [@url:https://github.com/greenelab/hetmech/].
The purpose of the Hetmech project is to develop new methods for inference and prediction on heterogeneous networks.
Fundamentally, the methods select node pairs which are more connected than would be expected if the network's relationships were meaningless.

Beyond predicting new connections, Hetmech seeks to provide explanatory tools for new connections.
Given two nodes that are not directly connected to one another in the network, we want to prioritize the potential avenues of connection between them.
For example, if a compound A is found to treat disease B, potential connections could include the following: "Compound A resembles compound C, which is known to treat disease B," or "Compound A binds gene D, known to be associated with disease B."
This task was complicated by several factors, including the size of the network, the size of intermediate features, and the statistical problem of determining when the connectivity between two nodes is significant.

I sought to continue building the computational infrastructure necessary to construct a complete database of connections and the pathways by which the connections could be explained.
Towards these goals, I hoped to produce a better model the behavior of network connectivity features, with the goal of providing a more accurate measures of significance for observed values.
Finally, I hoped to apply the methods developed to a biological task in collaboration with Pfizer, a sponsor of the Hetmech project.
